Translator: Carolina Zanelli
Reviewer: Rhonda Jacobs
This meadowlark
perches on a prairie flower
singing its mating song.
It's customary for meadowlarks
to sing toward the rising sun.
This one, however, was mistaken
by the lights of Rapid City at 2 AM.
Despite being 60 miles south
of the Rapid City border
and well within the boundaries
of Wind Cave National Park,
this songbird was singing out
much too late to attract a mate.
Have you ever tried attracting a mate
by calling them at 2 AM?
(Laughter)
My mother told me
nothing good happens after midnight.
(Laughter)
So why was this songbird so confused,
mistaking the bright lights of Rapid City
for the rising sun at 2 AM?
Improper lighting
and the over-illumination
of residential neighborhoods,
business signage, and street lights
brighten our night sky,
creating an orange hue above the city
for miles outside its border.
Over 100 years ago,
all creatures could look up
and see a spectacular starry night sky.
But now, eight out of ten children
will never see the Milky Way
from where they live.
Light pollution doesn't only impact
our view of the universe,
it also impacts our environment,
our individual health,
and energy consumption.
The three main components
of light pollution
include sky glow as well as glare
and light trespass,
which I will also explain.
Glare is the excessive brightness
that causes us visual discomfort.
We often illuminate areas
in attempt to increase safety.
As children, we're afraid of the dark,
so we flip on a night switch
because "the night
is dark and full of terrors."
And as adults, we do that now
on a much grander scale.
A 2015 study published in the Journal
of Epidemiology and Community Health
looked at statistics
where researchers studied lights
that were turned on at certain hours,
dimmed, or turned off completely,
and found that it had no impact
on traffic collisions or crime.
I want you to take
a very close look at this picture.
Mentally note what you see.
With properly shielded lights,
we can actually see
what was there the entire time.
Brighter does not mean safer.
The third component
of light pollution is light trespass.
To understand this, I want you
to envision your bedroom.
Could you sleep at night with no curtains?
Or do you need those blackout shades
tucked into every single crevice
of that window pane,
just in order to get a good night's sleep?
If so, that is because of light trespass,
the shining of light where it's unneeded,
and unintended, and unwanted,
from another source originating
somewhere other than your own.
Now that we've looked
at what causes light pollution,
let's take a look
at where light pollution is.
Here is a global map with light pollution
depicted by various colors.
Let's zoom in to our local area of impact.
This is Rapid City.
We are on the front lines
of a battle of lights versus dark.
Zooming in closer to South Dakota,
I want you to envision
that you're downtown
at Main Street Square,
you've got your blanket, your chair,
you're ready to stargaze.
And then you look up, and you realize
you can see relatively very few stars.
You cannot even see the Big Dipper.
So you pack up all your belongings,
you get in the car,
you drive to the city limits,
where now you're in the orange zone,
where eight out of ten Americans live,
and we have a local observatory.
You look up, you still
cannot see the Milky Way.
You keep on driving, you go deep
into the Black Hills National Forest,
and then you see it,
the sky glow the meadowlark
was singing toward.
To get to a naturally dark sky,
you would have to drive two hours north,
to the corner of northwest South Dakota,
an area called Slim Buttes,
which has a Class 1 dark sky,
a naturally lit sky,
where the stars from
the Milky Way shine so bright
it will cast a shadow of you
on the ground.
Rapid City is a Class 9 sky,
the brightest depicted on the map,
where light pollution is 100 up to 200
times brighter than our natural darkness.
You cannot make out the North Star.
But the thing is Rapid City is not alone.
Light pollution plagues
every modern city and town.
The good news, however,
is that light pollution could possibly
be the simplest problem to solve
and could literally be done overnight,
simply with the flip of a switch.
So if at any point in this presentation
you decide that it's important
to protect our dark skies,
I ask you to turn off
your light in front of you,
simply by twisting it off.
Now just like in real life, here's a hint:
You can ask your neighbor
to shut off their light as well
if their light is trespassing
into your area
and inhibiting your view
of a TEDx presentation.
(Laughter)
Even if we all turn out our lights,
more is needed to be done.
One hundred years ago, this is the view
from Skyline Drive you would have seen.
Today, this is a picture taken this year
during the Rapid City Dark Earth Hour.
Which one do you prefer?
So what are we going to do if we all
turn out our lights and it's still bright?
We need to protect nocturnal habitats,
stargazing opportunities,
and our nocturnal plants and animals.
Now, bats.
There's an idea. I know what we can do.
Let's call Batman!
He'll know what to do!
Send the bat signal!
Right?
Oh, wait, maybe
he didn't get the memo either.
So let's shift our focus
to nocturnal plants.
In the Black Hills, there's a moonflower
that blooms only in dark nights.
(Music)
(Music ends)
Earth evolved with
bright days and dark nights.
Another example of nocturnal life
that needs darkness is the owl.
Owls see five times brighter
than we do as humans
because in their eyes
they have light detecting rods
that are numbered
at one million rods per square millimeter.
Just because we can see with lights
at night doesn't mean other creatures can.
But even though we can see
with artificial light at night,
doesn't mean that it's healthy for us.
The American Medical Association states
"all creatures need darkness to survive."
As light travels through our eye,
it goes to a tract of a nucleus cluster
of thousands of cells
that send messages to our glands.
Those glands secrete a naturally occurring
hormone called melatonin.
The great thing about melatonin
is it has great antioxidant qualities
that rid our brain and body
of free radicals
that cause damage to our brain and body.
The Journal of Epidemiology Research shows
that exposure to artificial light at night
has been linked
to an increase in Alzheimer's,
breast cancer,
obesity,
and depression.
Let's take a look now
at what our future holds.
The map I showed you of South Dakota
is a one from 1997,
when in all reality, tonight's dark skies
is much more closely,
really, like the map of 2025.
In only eight years, it's estimated
that just eight dark sky places
will remain in the United States.
So if we can't call Batman,
what are we supposed to do?
OK, I have another idea, hold on with me,
this is a little bit better.
Let's join the Dark Side.
Maybe Kylo Ren and Darth Vader
had it right all along.
But all joking aside, there really is
something about the color spectrum.
This is a color Kelvin chart,
rating color by its temperature.
The International Dark Sky Association
rates colors below 3,000 Kelvins
as dark sky friendly
because it doesn't impair night vision.
What else can we do?
Address our fixtures, because dark skies
doesn't have to mean dark ground.
We can point lights down,
where the light is intended.
The International Dark Sky Association
estimates that all of the outdoor lighting
wastes 30 percent of light
that goes outward and upward
where it is not needed or intended,
wasting money and creating
more carbon emissions.
In addition, this is a sample
of a front porch light
that could be converted
into a full cutoff fixture,
reducing glare, sky glow,
and light trespass.
Streetlights that point light
outward and upward
could be retrofitted
to point the light downward.
Paris, the City of Light, took solving
light pollution to a whole new level.
They enacted a lights-out curfew of 1 AM
or one hour past the last
employee's departure time.
I challenge you to find
your reason for #LightsOut.
I wish you all a very dark night.
(Applause)